[MUSIC PLAYING] Hey, guys. It's Chelsea from
The Financial Diet. And this series is sponsored
by Fidelity Investments. Is there anything more
annoying than when you're reading an article about saving
money, and in terms of tips, it's like rent out the
spare room in your house. And you're like, oh yeah,
totally that house I own with that extra room that's
not just being shared by me and my four other roommates. There is an enormous amount of
out-of-touch advice out there. And it's easy to read
that stuff and feel incredibly discouraged. As if the only tips that
really worked for saving money are things that are
totally out of your reach. So I wanted to take
this time to provide you some real tips for saving money
no matter how much you earn. No, I will not be telling you
to rent out that Airbnb that you don't own, nor will I be telling
you to cut everything out of your life that
brings you joy. Although to be fair, those
are pretty unsustainable tips in general anyway. So grab your latte
or your glass of wine or your overpriced bowl
of Cinnamon Toast Crunch because no, I will
not be telling you, you must buy the generic brand
of that delicious, delicious cereal. And let's talk about
ways to utilize psychology and technology to
actually start saving money. First, understand that literally
no amount is too small to get started. One of the biggest
hurdles of saving money, especially at the beginning,
is actually creating the habit. But the more you do the
act of saving money, even with very small
amounts, the more it becomes a natural part
of your routine, which is one of the most
important things you need to establish early on. But here's the great news. We live in a golden
era of banking. We live in an age
where there are plenty of banks that will
allow you to keep accounts where you're just putting in a
couple dollars here and there and not charge you exorbitant
fees just to maintain them. A lot of us probably grew up in
the era of big box only banks where you were charged
exorbitant monthly or yearly fees for the crime of daring
to maintain an account that's under $1,500 in its balance. Which is extremely prohibitive
to saving, especially if you're just starting out. But today, there are plenty of
smaller banks and credit unions and online only options
that will offer you plenty of ways to save and
store your money without all of the extra baggage. And this opens up a
whole new world of little by little savings. And as a bonus, some
of these institutions might give you a higher rate of
interest than that measly 0.01 that some big banks
currently offer. So to find the account
that works for you, start doing some
research online. Websites like NerdWallet
are great for aggregating all different options
and ranking them in different categories and
explaining their differences. Make sure to bank
somewhere that's FDIC insured and isn't
going to charge you a fee just for holding
your money there. And then you can start little
by little making those savings deposits. Because even if the
number you're saving doesn't feel important, trust
me that the act of saving it is. And frankly, opening up that
account in the first place is half the battle. Number two is set up
different savings accounts for different savings goals. There's another big advantage
of these no fee bank accounts, which is that you can
have as many of them as you want for
different purposes. You'll want different
savings accounts for different savings goals. We sometimes refer to these as
buckets and financial planning. But basically, these accounts
ensure that all of your goals are being treated as
the independent entities that they are, and you
can even go so far as to rename these accounts based
on the goal they represent, which frankly, you
should because that will help keep you motivated
and understand at a glance exactly where you are on
the process to those goals. You're, of course, going to have
an account for something basic like your emergency
fund, but you may also want an account for
something like an upcoming vacation or a good winter
coat that will last you years and years to come but cost
a bit up front, or a new car, or really any other goal that
is shorter term but important to make space for. If you're anything like
me and you legitimately enjoy planning and plotting
and saving and watching the little numbers tick up,
this is a pretty effortless way of making sure that
you're staying motivated because you can actually see
what your savings is going toward in a really literal way. You can even go the extra
step and pair these accounts with something like a mood
board or a Pinterest board to help visualize what the goal
represents and stay even more motivated. Because having that
tangible element will make it feel all the more real
even before you can actually afford the item. Saving your money
in one big giant nebulous pot that you're not
even really sure what it's all going to can feel pretty
demoralizing because just seeing some big vague number, as
opposed to spending on a thing that you enjoy in the moment,
never feels like a good trade off. But seeing your savings grow
and build toward these things that you actually care
about and can visualize will make you want
to save even more. Number three, set up automated
weekly or monthly transfers. You should be doing
this a few days at most after your
paycheck hits. Why? Because we know that it
is incredibly dangerous to have money just sitting
there in your checking account where you can
spend it whenever you want. And more importantly,
your brain has already counted it as money
that is yours to spend. If you're never
seeing this money, it's being taken automatically
out of your paycheck and being put towards
goals, you are much less likely to miss it. In fact, many of
us might realize that we don't even notice the
money is gone after a while because we're not mentally
processing it as money we already had and had to give up. Now obviously, this
is easier to do if you are paid regularly with
something like direct deposit or a paycheck. But even if you are paid
on a variable income, there are ways to do this
by ensuring that you're automatically transferring
a minimal amount that you know you can afford at a
certain time each month. And then going in ad hoc
and moving more money when it's possible to do so. This is part of the reason
why service jobs, where you're getting paid in a lot of
cash, can be very, very hard to save on because it's
so easy and tempting to take that cash and go
spend it right away rather than actually move it
physically over to an account. The more you automate, the more
you can undermine this impulse and ensure that
money is making it well and safely into
your various savings accounts every month. Number four, figure out
what you actually value and spend money on that. Now, if you've been following
TFD for any amount of time, you probably already know that
one of our biggest theories when it comes to
managing your money well is making sure that
what you are spending on are things that are
actually bringing you real value in your life. And obviously, there are going
to be some of these things that are no-brainers,
like you're not going to pay for an expensive
yoga membership if you don't really
do yoga that much. Although I think
pre-COVID a lot of us we're paying for pretty useless
gym and studio memberships. But it can be a lot
more nuanced than that. And often, what we're
really getting value out of versus what we think
we're getting value out of can be a lot more
nuanced and gray. We live in a world
where we are constantly being told that we
need to buy things. We open up our phones,
click on Instagram, and are suddenly drowning in
a world of aspiration and envy and influence. It can be so difficult
to separate out what is really truly adding
to our lives versus what we have just been told to want
or even think that we need. And our young adult lives are
a time of self discovery, both in general, but also
when it comes to what holds value for us financially. And to give a more
precise example of this, let's take personal style. When it comes to fashion, it
operates on a seasonal basis. And over the past several
years especially, I feel like it's somehow
constantly Fashion Week and we're constantly being
bombarded with new styles. But if we take the
time to actually curate what is our personal
sense of style, creating a capsule wardrobe
based on what we love and wear frequently, creating
mood boards to really help define finding style icons
that we can follow who have a more defined
sense of aesthetic and are not constantly
moving with the trends, you can start to become a little
bit more immune to everything that comes and goes. The less you feel that you
have a truly identified sense of style, the more
susceptible you are going to feel to what
everyone, quote unquote, "is wearing this year," such
as, for example, the scourge that is low rise
jeans, for some reason, making a reappearance
in our fashion. For each area in your life
where you are constantly being bombarded
with a narrative, go out of your way to
seek what works for you and what you actually
feel good when you purchase so you can
start to more and more tune out the noise. Number five is you
must learn to say no. To be perfectly honest,
it's a bit disingenuous to say that you should
only spend money on what you love because
frankly, there could be a lot of things that you love. And sometimes, the
things that you love cost more money than you
actually have to spend. So beyond just making
sure that you're eliminating down
to what you love, you will also need to get
comfortable with the idea that you can't have
it all at once, especially when we are
constantly surrounded by marketing narratives, and
let's be clear, sometimes social groups that are
tempting us to spend money-- sometimes money we don't have. This makes learning how to say
no an active acquired skill. But the key is learning
to do this with tact and creating a sense of
balance even while saying no. For example, you might
opt out of your friend's crazy expensive
bachelorette weekend, but that doesn't
mean you can't go out of your way to find ways
to be actively involved with her wedding and let her
know that it's important to you to spend this time with her. You just can't do
it in a way that's going to cost that
specific amount of money. But if you find that it's very
difficult for you to say no, whether it's saying no to
an individual person or just saying no to yourself when you
see something that you want and feel compelled
to buy it, you may want to start looking
at the root of why it's so difficult for you to say no. There are all kinds of
psychological and emotional factors that go into our
desire to spend and sometimes to overspend. And if we're not dealing with
the root cause of these issues, it can be very
difficult to get over that impulse in the moment. This could come from financial
shame due to our upbringings or our previous
relationships with money, a feeling of
inadequacy, a feeling that our social lives depend
on our ability to spend money. We're all different
manner of personal traumas when it comes to how
we perceive ourselves. Because ultimately, our
image is often very linked up with what we're spending on. So making sure to get to the
root of that emotional problem and dealing with
it on its own terms rather than just thinking of the
symptom, which is the spending, is key to making sure that
you can get to a better place and take control of that no. Number six is track
your spending. One of my all time
favorite phrases is what gets measured
gets managed. And you will find
yourself blown away by how much you
automatically want to be spending in a better,
smarter, and more sustainable way the second you are keeping
a close eye on what you spend. If you're looking away from the
results of swiping that card, it can be very easy to feel
like you're spending really has no consequences or not
come to terms with money that might have been ill spent. But as soon as you're
actually watching that money leave your
account on a regular basis and understand where
it's going, you are going to realize that
this spending is very real, has real consequences to those
longer term goals that you're saving for, and doesn't always
feel so good after the fact. So simply forcing yourself
to confront these numbers can be a very easy
way to give yourself the impetus to manage them. Commit to learning intimately
at least the past three months of all of
your statements, to really understanding
what was and wasn't worth it, identifying purchases
you don't even remember making or which may have
been fraudulent, and getting a really clear
understanding of where your money is going every month. I promise you that just
the act of doing this is going to automatically change
your relationship to spending money. Number seven is find and
accountability partner with whom you can
celebrate your victories. We did a whole video here at
TFD on having a financial buddy system. And it is incredibly
important that you do this when you are working
on saving, especially saving for the first
time, because it can be difficult to feel motivated. It can feel socially
isolating when you're trying to
stick to a budget, and not everyone is someone
with whom you can really talk about money. It's the same as when
you're working out in a class versus a loan. For most of us, we find
that when we're working out around other people,
we actually give it our all a little bit more even
if we don't know these people from Adam because
just the act of having other people around us gives
us a sense of accountability. Similarly, if you're setting
a meeting with your friend to go and work out together,
you are so much more likely to show up than if you're just
planning to go to the studio yourself because you know
someone will actually care if you don't show up. So find a friend with whom
you can share your goals. Stay accountable to how
you're reaching them. Share your victories,
ask questions, give each other
little motivations, find budget friendly ways
to celebrate together, and create a real
routine with them. You can have an
ongoing chat, but also maybe have a weekly date night
where you're specifically just going over all
of your money stuff and can keep each other
accountable in a fun way. And if this person is hard to
find in your personal life, start finding these
communities online. Now that we're basically all
hanging out via Zoom these days anyway, it's not really that
unusual to be meeting people online and using these
tools to form accountability groups through long distance. Knowing that someone cares about
how you're treating your money is going to keep you all the
more interested in doing it well. Number eight is think
of ways to earn more. Now this isn't the most fun
topic, but it must be said. We have to be realistic here. At certain incomes,
saving a lot is going to be a near impossibility. And to be clear, this is in
no way a personal failing. This is a failing of a society
that consistently underpays people for their labor. And if this might
be your situation, it is important that you
not feel shame over this, nor to feel obligated
to cut every bit of joy out of your life
to make sure you can save, as some
financial experts would advise that you do. For some of us, an
easier and more appealing option can be finding ways
to bring a bit more money in. And yes, this may
require initially investing in yourself before you
can start investing externally. But even that self investment
is very much an actionable step on the path to saving money. For example, invest
in a personal website to showcase your work, brush
up on certain skills that could easily be monetized via
freelancing opportunities, sign up for various
apps and temp options, reinvest in your education,
or simply take the time to audit the skills and
availability you already currently have that
you could be using for freelance opportunities. Take it from someone who
used to tutor English online constantly as a way
to earn extra money here and there, you probably
have more opportunities than you think at your disposal. So we covered a lot today. And to be honest, eight ways to
save more money at any income is kind of a lot. So do not feel overwhelmed. You can start by picking just
one or two of these steps to really start making a change
in your relationship to money and putting yourself on the
right path to saving more effortlessly and consistently. Good luck and happy saving. And as I mentioned,
this video is sponsored by Fidelity Investments. And they are here to help
you reach your savings goals. And if you're looking
for an easy way to finally start investing what
you save, check out Fidelity. Bye, guys.